Explain the importance of checkpointing for backups (#1793) (#1811)
neo4j/docs-operations: modules/ROOT/pages/backup-restore/online-backup.adoc

[[online-backup-configurations]]
== Online backup configurations

[[online-backup-checkpoints]]
=== Checkpointing

When a full backup is requested, it always triggers a checkpoint.
The backup cannot proceed until the checkpoint finishes.

While the server is checkpointing, the backup job receives no data, which may lead to the backup timeout.

> To extend the backup timeout, modify the xref:configuration/configuration-settings.adoc#config_dbms.cluster.catchup.client_inactivity_timeout[`dbms.cluster.catchup.client_inactivity_timeout`] setting, which restricts the network inactivity.

Author: ```suggestion
To extend the backup timeout, modify the xref:configuration/configuration-settings.adoc##config_causal_clustering.catch_up_client_inactivity_timeout[`causal_clustering.catch_up_client_inactivity_timeout`] setting, which restricts the network inactivity.
```

[[online-backup-configurations]]
== Online backup configurations

[[online-backup-checkpoints]]
=== Checkpointing

When a full backup is requested, it always triggers a checkpoint.
The backup cannot proceed until the checkpoint finishes.

While the server is checkpointing, the backup job receives no data, which may lead to the backup timeout.
To extend the backup timeout, modify the xref:configuration/configuration-settings.adoc#config_dbms.cluster.catchup.client_inactivity_timeout[`dbms.cluster.catchup.client_inactivity_timeout`] setting, which restricts the network inactivity.
It controls the timeout duration of the catchup protocol, which is the underlying protocol of multiple catchup processes, including backups.

You can also tune up xref:configuration/configuration-settings.adoc#_checkpoint_settings[the Checkpoint settings] or check that your disks are performant enough to handle the load. 
For more information, see xref:performance/disks-ram-and-other-tips.adoc#performance-checkpoint-iops-limit[Checkpoint IOPS limit].

> To read more about checkpointing, see xref:database-internals/checkpointing.adoc[Database internals -> Checkpointing and log pruning].

Author: ```suggestion
```
